Api documentation (#488)
urbit/urbit.org: content/using/develop.md

aliases = ["/docs/using/creating-a-development-ship/", "/docs/getting-started/contributing"]
+++

You can develop on Urbit in three ways:

> - [Applications on Urbit](#api), which use Urbit as the back-end to store data and communicate with others

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Applications using Urbit](#api), which use Urbit as the back-end to store data and communicate with others
```

> - [Urbit Applications](#application), which are written in [Hoon](/docs/glossary/hoon/), and run as part of Urbit

Author: @jalehman Did we decide to say "Urbit Agents" instead?

Reviewer: Can't remember if we decided on that or not. I like the idea, but it's not exactly correct. Technically they're *gall* agents, but I worry about adding yet another term into the mix here. Perhaps if there was a natural way to link to the correct concept—gall agents—the white lie could be both (mostly) correct and newcomer-friendly?

> - [Urbit Core](#core)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Urbit Core](#core), which involves contributing to Urbit's operating system ([Arvo](https://github.com/urbit/urbit/tree/master/pkg/arvo)) or runtime ([Vere](https://github.com/urbit/urbit/tree/master/pkg/urbit))
```

When developing, however, we recommend [booting a development ship](#creating-a-development-ship) and working locally -- you may need to make changes that could, in the wrong hands, destroy the ship’s environment, and it’s best to do so in a safe, separate place.

> ## Applications on Urbit {#api}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Applications using Urbit {#api}
```

> Urbit ships with its own set of apps written in its own language, Hoon. However it is also meant to integrate with applications written in other languages via an API. The clearest example of an application for Urbit is Landscape, the default client. Although it does currently ship with Urbit, its front-end is a separate piece of software that uses the Urbit API to interact with an Urbit ship. back. You can create your own application that uses Urbit to store data and interact with other Urbit ships without writing any Hoon code thanks to this API. This could be a chat client, a writing app, a game, or anything else.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Urbit ships with its own set of apps written in its own language, Hoon. However it is also meant to integrate with applications written in other languages via an API. The clearest example of an application using Urbit is Landscape, the default client. Although it does currently ship with Urbit, its front-end is a separate piece of software that uses Urbit's HTTP APIs to interact with an Urbit ship. You can create your own application that uses Urbit to store data and interact with other Urbit ships without writing any Hoon code thanks to Urbit's HTTP APIs. This could be a chat client, a writing app, a game, or anything else that can communicate over HTTP.
```

> To get started quickly with the language of your choice, see the following libraries:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started quickly with the language of your choice, see the following libraries provide HTTP interfaces to Urbit:
```

>  - [Python](https://github.com/baudtack/urlock-py) (Stable)

Reviewer: **suggestion:** adding a link to the Swift client as well would be a good idea: https://github.com/dclelland/UrsusAirlock

When writing applications, you will often make use of [Gall](@/docs/tutorials/hoon/hoon-school/gall.md), the Arvo vane that manages user applications.

If you want to see examples of Urbit applications with common functionality requirements, you can see our [examples](https://github.com/urbit/examples) repository. If you want to get started building applications with a Landscape interface, check out our [create-landscape-app](https://github.com/urbit/create-landscape-app) repository.

## Urbit Core {#core}

Working on the core means improving the Urbit project itself, working with the existing community of Urbit developers. The kernel is much more stable, but generally more challenging from an engineering standpoint.

Just arrived and unsure what to work on? An ideal way to get started is by experimenting with the system, talking to other developers, and reading (or [contributing to](https://github.com/urbit/docs)) the [documentation](/docs/).

> Prefer learning with an instructor? We also offer an online course that covers the basics of Urbit development called [Hoon School](@/community/hoonschool.md). If course-based learning works well for you, we recommend you sign up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prefer learning with an instructor? Our community runs an online course that covers the basics of Urbit development called [Hooniversity](https://hooniversity.org/). If course-based learning works well for you, we recommend you sign up.
```
